# Bug or not Bug? Analysing the Reasons Behind Metamorphic Relation Violations 

Metamorphic Testing (MT) is a testing technique that can effectively alleviate the oracle problem. MT uses Metamorphic Relations (MRs) to determine if a test case passes or fails. MRs specify how the outputs should vary in response to specific input changes when executing the System Under Test (SUT). If a particular MR is violated for at least one test input (and its change), there is a high probability that the SUT has a fault. On the other hand, if a particular MR is not violated, it does not guarantee that the SUT is fault free. However, deciding if the MR is being violated due to a bug or because the MR does not hold/fit for particular conditions generated by specific inputs remains a manual task and unexplored. In this paper, we develop a method for refining MRs to offer hints as to whether a violation results from a bug or arises from the MR not being matched to certain test data under specific circumstances. In our initial proof-of-concept, we derive the relevant information from rules using the Association Rule Mining (ARM) technique. In our initial proof-of-concept, we validate our method on a toy example and discuss the lessons learned from our experiments. Our proof-of-concept demonstrates that our method is applicable and that we can provide suggestions that help strengthen the test suite for regression testing purposes.

This repo contains the full set of data generated during the experiments performed for our paper, as well as all scripts  
